## Buckling Analysis of a Composite Cylinder

Fiber-reinforced polymer (FRP) composite is a perfect example of a thin-walled structure. Unlike metals, e.g., steel or aluminum, FRP composites have superior weight-to-strength ratio. Thus, less material is needed to manufacture composite parts. As the result, the composite structures much thinner in comparison with the metal counterpart opening the avenue for lightweight and high-performance applications. While having a wide array of advantages, on the other hand, thin FRP composite structures are susceptible to buckling. Buckling is a loss of stability due to large instantaneous deformations rather than strength of the material [1]. Henceforth, buckling is the main driver of the structure’s collapse rather than material failure. Needless to say, the occurrence of enormous deformations of a structure due to buckling leads to catastrophic failure of the material. Estimation of critical loads due to buckling is an indispensable part of the stress analysis of the composite structures. Prior to buckling, the structure undergoes deformations in the elastic regime. This deformation path is called a trivial primary path. The onset of buckling begins at the bifurcation point. The critical loads are the nontrivial eigenvalues that transform the model stiffness matrix to zero. The force-deformation response past the bifurcation point is the secondary path that the structure undergoes. Due to numerical instabilities associated with a rapid change of the stress-strain response, the estimation of the secondary path possesses a significant hurdle to overcome. Nonetheless, even the estimation of a critical loads of the thin-walled composite structures helps to identify and mitigate critical failures at the design stage.

## Rereferences

[1] E. Barbero, Finite element analysis of composite materials using Abaqus, CRC Press, 2013.
